I would like to be considered for the position of 'Junior Data Scientist'. I feel my background as an academic researcher, with a speciality in extracting meaning from data and experience in software development places me in a leading position for this role. 

For the last seven years, I have worked in a field that requires the development and application of statistical methods and algorithms, to gain understanding of different datasets. Typically this would involve performing exploratory analyses to get an overview, followed by drawing on my analytical background to propose and test hypotheses. I am interested in applying my training and skills to an important area of medical research.

A key aspect of my current employment and Ph.D. is developing software, both to aid me in my data analysis, and to routinely process raw data for the project I work on. I am extremely experienced with Python and C++, along with common data processing and machine learning libraries such as numpy, matplotlib and scikit-learn. I am confident in handling large quantities of data which do not fit in memory, and applying statistical methods and machine learning techniques. My work involves pre-processing and signal processing techniques, along with correction for known and possibly unknown systematic effects.

My work also requires me to have a high level of communication skills, and to convey methods and outcomes to other members of my team. My work has lead to me leading a distributed team in multiple time zones, coordinating the flow of knowledge back and forth. I routinely present my work at weekly teleconferences, and biannual face to face meetings.

Outside of work, I enjoy contributing to open source software, and maintaining my own projects. I have attended PyCon UK multiple times, including a presentation on my work in astronomy, and I participate in programming meetups. I am also interested in music, playing several instruments. Through musical activities and commitment to open source software, I have acquired a high level of self-motivation, giving me the tenacity to remain committed and focused on a project until a successful outcome is achieved.
